# Barley-data

Data performed as a pilot study for a larger systems biology project [1]. The pilot experiment is described in [2] for two varieties: Maresi and Cam/B1//CI08887/CI05761. Barley plants were cultivated under partially controlled greenhouse conditions. The primary metabolites were recognized by gas chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry (GC–MS). In our paper nine spring barley genotypes were used: the European varieties Georgia, Maresi, Lubuski, Sebastian and Stratus; Morex, bred in the USA; and Cam/B1/CI 08887//Cl 0576, Harmal, and Maris Dingo/Deir Alla 106, being lines bred in Syria. Data were obtained at 4 time points, in 4 biological replications and 2 technical replications. The total number of samples was 422. After preprocessing 781x211 data matrix was obtained.

References:
1. Swarcewicz B.; Sawikowska A.; Marczak Ł.; Łuczak M.; Ciesiołka D.; Krystkowiak K.; Kuczyńska A.; Piślewska-Bednarek M.; Krajewski P.; Stobiecki M. Effect of drought stress on metabolite contents in barley recombinant inbred line population revealed by untargeted GC–MS profiling.  Acta Physiol Plant, 2017, 39, 158.
2. Chmielewska K.; Rodziewicz P.; Swarcewicz B.; Sawikowska A.; Krajewski P.; Marczak Ł.; Ciesiołka D.; Kuczyńska A.; Mikołajczak K.; Ogrodowicz P.; Krystkowiak K.; Surma M.; Adamski T.; Bednarek P.; Stobiecki M. Analysis of drought-induced proteomic and metabolomic changes in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) leaves and roots unravels some aspects of biochemical mechanisms involved in drought tolerance. Frontiers in Plant Science, 2016, 7, 1108.
